# chemical_data
Data wrangling and database design using multiple sources for chemical structures

The goal of this exercise was to generate a database using the four datasets that are provided in the input folder.
Two XML files, one Excel and several text files that are containig the data from one source (PPIS).

The main function is written in Pyhton and is provided in the assignment.py file.
The HTML files contains the same file but they visualize this file better. One with the output of the code and the other without.
The ipynb is the jupyter notebook file containing the original version of the code.

-IARC.xls file contains the cleaned data from IARC source
-PPIS_clean.xls file contains the cleaned data from PPIS source
-ChemID_clean.xls file contains the cleaned data from ChemID source
-Mesh_clean.xls file contains the cleaned data from MeSH source
-names_final.xls file contains the common name, systematic name and CAS number for each chemical achieved from all four sources
-CAS_file.xls contains the CAS # of each chemical achieved from the names_final.xls file
-source_final.xls contains the CAS # and source(s) of each chemical achieved from all four sources

Results folder, contains the chemicals.db and final_dataset.xls
-chemicals.db file is the database that has 3 tables
	chemicalsID containing the chemID and CAS number for each chemical structure
	chemicalsName containing the chemID, nameID, common and systematic names for each chemical structure
	chemicalSource which contains the chemID, nameID and source for each chemical structure
-final_dataset.csv contains the CAS number, common and systematic names and sources for each chemical.

The new database and final_dataset.xls that could be generated by running the code will be stored in oputput folder.
